Thank you so much.  That's so nice.  Isn't he a great guy.  He doesn't get a fair press; he doesn't get it.  It's just not fair.  And I have to tell you I'm here, and very strongly here, because I have great respect for Steve King and have great respect likewise for Citizens United, David and everybody, and tremendous resect for the Tea Party.  Also, also the people of Iowa.  They have something in common.  Hard-working people.  They want to work, they want to make the country great.  I love the people of Iowa.  So that's the way it is.  Very simple.  
With that said, our country is really headed in the wrong direction with a president who is doing an absolutely terrible job.  The world is collapsing around us, and many of the problems we've caused.  Our president is either grossly incompetent, a word that more and more people are using, and I think I was the first to use it, or he has a completely different agenda than you want to know about, which could be possible.  In any event, Washington is broken, and our country is in serious trouble and total disarray.  Very simple.  Politicians are all talk, no action.  They are all talk and no action.  And it's constant; it never ends.  
And I'm a conservative, actually very conservative, and I'm a Republican.  And I'm very disappointed by our Republican politicians.  Because they let the president get away with absolute murder.  You see always, oh we're going to do this, we're going to--.  Nothing ever happens; nothing ever happens.

TRUMP: Wow. Whoa. That is some group of people. Thousands.

So nice, thank you very much. That’s really nice. Thank you. It’s great to be at Trump Tower. It’s great to be in a wonderful city, New York. And it’s an honor to have everybody here. This is beyond anybody’s expectations. There’s been no crowd like this.

And, I can tell, some of the candidates, they went in. They didn’t know the air-conditioner didn’t work. They sweated like dogs.

They didn’t know the room was too big, because they didn’t have anybody there. How are they going to beat ISIS? I don’t think it’s gonna happen.

Our country is in serious trouble. We don’t have victories anymore. We used to have victories, but we don’t have them. When was the last time anybody saw us beating, let’s say, China in a trade deal? They kill us. I beat China all the time. All the time.
We want Trump. We want Trump.

When did we beat Japan at anything? They send their cars over by the millions, and what do we do? When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo? It doesn’t exist, folks. They beat us all the time.

When do we beat Mexico at the border? They’re laughing at us, at our stupidity. And now they are beating us economically. They are not our friend, believe me. But they’re killing us economically.

The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else’s problems.

(APPLAUSE)

Thank you. It’s true, and these are the best and the finest. When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best. They’re not sending you. They’re not sending you. They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.

But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we’re getting. And it only makes common sense. It only makes common sense. They’re sending us not the right people.

It’s coming from more than Mexico. It’s coming from all over South and Latin America, and it’s coming probably — probably — from the Middle East. But we don’t know. Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don’t know what’s happening. And it’s got to stop and it’s got to stop fast.(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East. They’ve become rich. I’m in competition with them.

They just built a hotel in Syria. Can you believe this? They built a hotel. When I have to build a hotel, I pay interest. They don’t have to pay interest, because they took the oil that, when we left Iraq, I said we should’ve taken.

So now ISIS has the oil, and what they don’t have, Iran has. And in 19 — and I will tell you this, and I said it very strongly, years ago, I said — and I love the military, and I want to have the strongest military that we’ve ever had, and we need it more now than ever. But I said, “Don’t hit Iraq,” because you’re going to totally destabilize the Middle East. Iran is going to take over the Middle East, Iran and somebody else will get the oil, and it turned out that Iran is now taking over Iraq. Think of it. Iran is taking over Iraq, and they’re taking it over big league.

We spent $2 trillion in Iraq, $2 trillion. We lost thousands of lives, thousands in Iraq. We have wounded soldiers, who I love, I love — they’re great — all over the place, thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers.

And we have nothing. We can’t even go there. We have nothing. And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it.

Last week, I read 2,300 Humvees — these are big vehicles — were left behind for the enemy. 2,000? You would say maybe two, maybe four? 2,300 sophisticated vehicles, they ran, and the enemy took them.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We need Trump now.

TRUMP: You’re right.

(APPLAUSE)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We need Trump now.

TRUMP: Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product — a sign of strength, right? But not for us. It was below zero. Whoever heard of this? It’s never below zero.

Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978. But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate.

And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent. Don’t believe the 5.6. Don’t believe it.

That’s right. A lot of people up there can’t get jobs. They can’t get jobs, because there are no jobs, because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs. They all have jobs.

But the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent, and nobody talks about it, because it’s a statistic that’s full of nonsense.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We want Trump now.

TRUMP: Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the way, and we as a country are getting weaker. Even our nuclear arsenal doesn’t work.

It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old. They don’t know if it worked. And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television, because boy, does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say, “That is a group of people, and that is a nation that truly has no clue. They don’t know what they’re doing. They don’t know what they’re doing.”

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We need Trump now.

(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: We have a disaster called the big lie: Obamacare. Obamacare.

Yesterday, it came out that costs are going for people up 29, 39, 49, and even 55 percent, and deductibles are through the roof. You have to be hit by a tractor, literally, a tractor, to use it, because the deductibles are so high, it’s virtually useless. It’s virtually useless. It is a disaster.TRUMP: And remember the $5 billion Web site? $5 billion we spent on a Web site, and to this day it doesn’t work. A $5 billion Web site.

I have so many Web sites, I have them all over the place. I hire people, they do a Web site. It costs me $3. $5 billion Web site.

(APPLAUSE)

AUDIENCE: We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump. We want Trump.

TRUMP: Well, you need somebody, because politicians are all talk, no action. Nothing’s gonna get done. They will not bring us — believe me — to the promised land. They will not.

As an example, I’ve been on the circuit making speeches, and I hear my fellow Republicans. And they’re wonderful people. I like them. They all want me to support them. They don’t know how to bring it about. They come up to my office. I’m meeting with three of them in the next week. And they don’t know — “Are you running? Are you not running? Could we have your support? What do we do? How do we do it?”

I like them. And I hear their speeches. And they don’t talk jobs and they don’t talk China. When was the last time you heard China is killing us? They’re devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn’t believe. It makes it impossible for our companies to compete, impossible. They’re killing us.

But you don’t hear that from anybody else. You don’t hear it from anybody else. And I watch the speeches.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: No more free (inaudible).

TRUMP: Thank you.

I watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon will set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen. And people are saying, “What’s going on? I just want a job. Just get me a job. I don’t need the rhetoric. I want a job.”

And that’s what’s happening. And it’s going to get worse, because remember, Obamacare really kicks in in ’16, 2016. Obama is going to be out playing golf. He might be on one of my courses. I would invite him, I actually would say. I have the best courses in the world, so I’d say, you what, if he wants to — I have one right next to the White House, right on the Potomac. If he’d like to play, that’s fine.

(APPLAUSE)

In fact, I’d love him to leave early and play, that would be a very good thing.

(LAUGHTER)

But Obamacare kicks in in 2016. Really big league. It is going to be amazingly destructive. Doctors are quitting. I have a friend who’s a doctor, and he said to me the other day, “Donald, I never saw anything like it. I have more accountants than I have nurses. It’s a disaster. My patients are beside themselves. They had a plan that was good. They have no plan now.”

We have to repeal Obamacare, and it can be — and — and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody. Let it be for everybody. But much better and much less expensive for people and for the government. And we can do it.

(APPLAUSE)

AUDIENCE: Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump.

TRUMP: So I’ve watched the politicians. I’ve dealt with them all my life. If you can’t make a good deal with a politician, then there’s something wrong with you. You’re certainly not very good. And that’s what we have= representing us. They will never make America great again. They don’t even have a chance. They’re controlled fully — they’re controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors, and by the special interests, fully.

Yes, they control them. Hey, I have lobbyists. I have to tell you. I have lobbyists that can produce anything for me. They’re great. But you know what? it won’t happen. It won’t happen. Because we have to stop doing things for some people, but for this country, it’s destroying our country. We have to stop, and it has to stop now.

AUDIENCE: It needs Trump.

TRUMP: Now, our country needs — our country needs a truly great leader, and we need a truly great leader now. We need a leader that wrote “The Art of the Deal.”

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

TRUMP: We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets. Our vets have been abandoned.

(APPLAUSE)

And we also need a cheerleader.

You know, when President Obama was elected, I said, “Well, the one thing, I think he’ll do well. I think he’ll be a great cheerleader for the country. I think he’d be a great spirit.”

He was vibrant. He was young. I really thought that he would be a great cheerleader.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: But not a leader.

TRUMP: He’s not a leader. That’s true. You’re right about that.

But he wasn’t a cheerleader. He’s actually a negative force. He’s been a negative force. He wasn’t a cheerleader; he was the opposite.

We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again. It’s not great again.

(APPLAUSE)

We need — we need somebody — we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again. We can do that.

(APPLAUSE)

And, I will tell you, I love my life. I have a wonderful family. They’re saying, “Dad, you’re going to do something that’s going to be so tough.”

You know, all of my life, I’ve heard that a truly successful person, a really, really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for public office. Just can’t happen. And yet that’s the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again.

So ladies and gentlemen…

(APPLAUSE)

I am officially running…

(APPLAUSE)

… for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again.

(APPLAUSE)

It can happen. Our country has tremendous potential. We have tremendous people.

We have people that aren’t working. We have people that have no incentive to work. But they’re going to have incentive to work, because the greatest social program is a job. And they’ll be proud, and they’ll love it, and they’ll make much more than they would’ve ever made, and they’ll be — they’ll be doing so well, and we’re going to be thriving as a country, thriving. It can happen.

(APPLAUSE)

I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I tell you that.

(APPLAUSE)

I’ll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places. I’ll bring back our jobs, and I’ll bring back our money.

Right now, think of this: We owe China $1.3 trillion. We owe Japan more than that. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, and then they loan us back the money, and we pay them in interest, and then the dollar goes up so their deal’s even better.

How stupid are our leaders? How stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen? How stupid are they?

(APPLAUSE)

I’m going to tell you — thank you. I’m going to tell you a couple of stories about trade, because I’m totally against the trade bill for a number of reasons.

Number one, the people negotiating don’t have a clue. Our president doesn’t have a clue. He’s a bad negotiator.

He’s the one that did Bergdahl. We get Bergdahl, they get five killer terrorists that everybody wanted over there.

We get Bergdahl. We get a traitor. We get a no-good traitor, and they get the five people that they wanted for years, and those people are now back on the battlefield trying to kill us. That’s the negotiator we have.

Take a look at the deal he’s making with Iran. He makes that deal, Israel maybe won’t exist very long. It’s a disaster, and we have to protect Israel. But…

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, we do. Yes, we do.(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: So we need people — I’m a free trader. But the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you. If you don’t have talented people, if you don’t have great leadership, if you don’t have people that know business, not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs, just about, are gotten, free trade terrible.

Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people, but we have people that are stupid. We have people that aren’t smart. And we have people that are controlled by special interests. And it’s just not going to work.

So, here’s a couple of stories happened recently. A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. And, you know, China comes over and they dump all their stuff, and I buy it. I buy it, because, frankly, I have an obligation to buy it, because they devalue their currency so brilliantly, they just did it recently, and nobody thought they could do it again.

But with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything — everything, they got away with it again. And it’s impossible for our people here to compete.

So I want to tell you this story. A friend of mine who’s a great manufacturer, calls me up a few weeks ago. He’s very upset. I said, “What’s your problem?”

He said, “You know, I make great product.”

And I said, “I know. I know that because I buy the product.”

He said, “I can’t get it into China. They won’t accept it. I sent a boat over and they actually sent it back. They talked about environmental, they talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it.”

I said, “Oh, wait a minute, that’s terrible. Does anyone know this?”

He said, “Yeah, they do it all the time with other people.”

I said, “They send it back?”

“Yeah. So I finally got it over there and they charged me a big tariff. They’re not supposed to be doing that. I told them.”

Now, they do charge you tariff on trucks, when we send trucks and other things over there.

Ask Boeing. They wanted Boeing’s secrets. They wanted their patents and all their secrets before they agreed to buy planes from Boeing.

Hey, I’m not saying they’re stupid. I like China. I sell apartments for — I just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from China. Am I supposed to dislike them? I own a big chunk of the Bank of America Building at 1290 Avenue of the Americas, that I got from China in a war. Very valuable.

I love China. The biggest bank in the world is from China. You know where their United States headquarters is located? In this building, in Trump Tower. I love China. People say, “Oh, you don’t like China?”

No, I love them. But their leaders are much smarter than our leaders, and we can’t sustain ourself with that. There’s too much — it’s like — it’s like take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team. That’s the difference between China’s leaders and our leaders.

They are ripping us. We are rebuilding China. We’re rebuilding many countries. China, you go there now, roads, bridges, schools, you never saw anything like it. They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge look like small potatoes. And they’re all over the place.

We have all the cards, but we don’t know how to use them. We don’t even know that we have the cards, because our leaders don’t understand the game. We could turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly.

Now they’re going militarily. They’re building a military island in the middle of the South China sea. A military island. Now, our country could never do that because we’d have to get environmental clearance, and the environmentalist wouldn’t let our country — we would never build in an ocean. They built it in about one year, this massive military port.

They’re building up their military to a point that is very scary. You have a problem with ISIS. You have a bigger problem with China.

And, in my opinion, the new China, believe it or not, in terms of trade, is Mexico.

So this man tells me about the manufacturing. I say, “That’s a terrible story. I hate to hear it.”

But I have another one, Ford.

So Mexico takes a company, a car company that was going to build in Tennessee, rips it out. Everybody thought the deal was dead. Reported it in the Wall Street Journal recently. Everybody thought it was a done deal. It’s going in and that’s going to be it, going into Tennessee. Great state, great people.TRUMP: All of a sudden, at the last moment, this big car manufacturer, foreign, announces they’re not going to Tennessee. They’re gonna spend their $1 billion in Mexico instead. Not good.

Now, Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2.5 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico. $2.5 billion, it’s going to be one of the largest in the world. Ford. Good company.

So I announced that I’m running for president. I would…

(APPLAUSE)

… one of the early things I would do, probably before I even got in — and I wouldn’t even use — you know, I have — I know the smartest negotiators in the world. I know the good ones. I know the bad ones. I know the overrated ones.

You get a lot of them that are overrated. They’re not good. They think they are. They get good stories, because the newspapers get buffaloed (ph). But they’re not good.

But I know the negotiators in the world, and I put them one for each country. Believe me, folks. We will do very, very well, very, very well.

But I wouldn’t even waste my time with this one. I would call up the head of Ford, who I know. If I was president, I’d say, “Congratulations. I understand that you’re building a nice $2.5 billion car factory in Mexico and that you’re going to take your cars and sell them to the United States zero tax, just flow them across the border.”

And you say to yourself, “How does that help us,” right? “How does that help us? Where is that good”? It’s not.

So I would say, “Congratulations. That’s the good news. Let me give you the bad news. Every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant that comes across the border, we’re going to charge you a 35-percent tax, and that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction, and that’s it.

Now, here’s what is going to happen. If it’s not me in the position, it’s one of these politicians that we’re running against, you know, the 400 people that we’re (inaudible). And here’s what’s going to happen. They’re not so stupid. They know it’s not a good thing, and they may even be upset by it. But then they’re going to get a call from the donors or probably from the lobbyist for Ford and say, “You can’t do that to Ford, because Ford takes care of me and I take care of you, and you can’t do that to Ford.”

And guess what? No problem. They’re going to build in Mexico. They’re going to take away thousands of jobs. It’s very bad for us.

So under President Trump, here’s what would happen:

(APPLAUSE)

The head of Ford will call me back, I would say within an hour after I told them the bad news. But it could be he’d want to be cool, and he’ll wait until the next day. You know, they want to be a little cool.

And he’ll say, “Please, please, please.” He’ll beg for a little while, and I’ll say, “No interest.” Then he’ll call all sorts of political people, and I’ll say, “Sorry, fellas. No interest,” because I don’t need anybody’s money. It’s nice. I don’t need anybody’s money.

I’m using my own money. I’m not using the lobbyists. I’m not using donors. I don’t care. I’m really rich. I (inaudible).

(APPLAUSE)

And by the way, I’m not even saying that in a — that’s the kind of mindset, that’s the kind of thinking you need for this country.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Absolutely.

TRUMP: So — because we got to make the country rich.

It sounds crass. Somebody said, “Oh, that’s crass.” It’s not crass.

We got $18 trillion in debt. We got nothing but problems.

We got a military that needs equipment all over the place. We got nuclear weapons that are obsolete.

We’ve got nothing. We’ve got Social Security that’s going to be destroyed if somebody like me doesn’t bring money into the country. All these other people want to cut the hell out of it. I’m not going to cut it at all; I’m going to bring money in, and we’re going to save it.

(APPLAUSE)

But here’s what’s going to happen:

After I’m called by 30 friends of mine who contributed to different campaigns, after I’m called by all of the special interests and by the — the donors and by the lobbyists — and they have zero chance at convincing me, zero — I’ll get a call the next day from the head of Ford. He’ll say. “Please reconsider,” I’ll say no.

He’ll say, “Mr. President, we’ve decided to move the plant back to the United States, and we’re not going to build it in Mexico.” That’s it. They have no choice. They have no choice.

There are hundreds of things like that. I’ll give you another example.TRUMP: Saudi Arabia, they make $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. I love the Saudis. Many are in this building. They make a billion dollars a day. Whenever they have problems, we send over the ships. We say “we’re gonna protect.” What are we doing? They’ve got nothing but money.

If the right person asked them, they’d pay a fortune. They wouldn’t be there except for us.

And believe me, you look at the border with Yemen. You remember Obama a year ago, Yemen was a great victory. Two weeks later, the place was blown up. Everybody got out — and they kept our equipment.

They always keep our equipment. We ought to send used equipment, right? They always keep our equipment. We ought to send some real junk, because, frankly, it would be — we ought to send our surplus. We’re always losing this gorgeous brand-new stuff.

But look at that border with Saudi Arabia. Do you really think that these people are interested in Yemen? Saudi Arabia without us is gone. They;re gone.

And I’m the one that made all of the right predictions about Iraq. You know, all of these politicians that I’m running against now — it’s so nice to say I’m running as opposed to if I run, if I run. I’m running.

(APPLAUSE)

But all of these politicians that I’m running against now, they’re trying to disassociate. I mean, you looked at Bush, it took him five days to answer the question on Iraq. He couldn’t answer the question. He didn’t know. I said, “Is he intelligent?”

Then I looked at Rubio. He was unable to answer the question, is Iraq a good thing or bad thing? He didn’t know. He couldn’t answer the question.

How are these people gonna lead us? How are we gonna — how are we gonna go back and make it great again? We can’t. They don’t have a clue. They can’t lead us. They can’t. They can’t even answer simple questions. It was terrible.

But Saudi Arabia is in big, big trouble. Now, thanks to fracking and other things, the oil is all over the place. And I used to say it, there are ships at sea, and this was during the worst crisis, that were loaded up with oil, and the cartel kept the price up, because, again, they were smarter than our leaders. They were smarter than our leaders.

There is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again, and therefore make it great again. Because we need money. We’re dying. We’re dying. We need money. We have to do it. And we need the right people.

So Ford will come back. They’ll all come back. And I will say this, this is going to be an election, in my opinion, that’s based on competence.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

TRUMP: Somebody said — thank you, darlin’.

(APPLAUSE)

Somebody said to me the other day, a reporter, a very nice reporter, “But, Mr. Trump, you’re not a nice person.”

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We don’t need nice.

TRUMP: That’s true. But actually I am. I think I am a nice person. People that know me, like me. Does my family like me? I think so, right. Look at my family. I’m proud of my family.

(APPLAUSE)

By the way, speaking of my family, Melania, Barron, Kai, Donnie, Don, Vanessa, Tiffany, Evanka did a great job. Did she do a great job?

(APPLAUSE)

Great. Jared (ph), Laura and Eric, I’m very proud of my family. They’re a great family.

(APPLAUSE)

So the reporter said to me the other day, “But, Mr. Trump, you’re not a nice person. How can you get people to vote for you?”

I said, “I don’t know.” I said, “I think that number one, I am a nice person. I give a lot of money away to charities and other things. I think I’m actually a very nice person.”

But, I said, “This is going to be an election that’s based on competence, because people are tired of these nice people. And they’re tired of being ripped off by everybody in the world. And they’re tired of spending more money on education than any nation in the world per capita, than any nation in the world, and we are 26th in the world, 25 countries are better than us in education. And some of them are like third world countries. But we’re becoming a third word country, because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads, everything. So one of the things I did, and I said, you know what I’ll do. I’ll do it. Because a lot of people said, “He’ll never run. Number one, he won’t want to give up his lifestyle.”

TRUMP: They’re right about that, but I’m doing it.

Number two, I’m a private company, so nobody knows what I’m worth. And the one thing is that when you run, you have to announce and certify to all sorts of governmental authorities your net worth.

So I said, “That’s OK.” I’m proud of my net worth. I’ve done an amazing job.

I started off — thank you — I started off in a small office with my father in Brooklyn and Queens, and my father said — and I love my father. I learned so much. He was a great negotiator. I learned so much just sitting at his feet playing with blocks listening to him negotiate with subcontractors. But I learned a lot.

But he used to say, “Donald, don’t go into Manhattan. That’s the big leagues. We don’t know anything about that. Don’t do it.”

I said, “I gotta go into Manhattan. I gotta build those big buildings. I gotta do it, Dad. I’ve gotta do it.”

And after four or five years in Brooklyn, I ventured into Manhattan and did a lot of great deals — the Grand Hyatt Hotel. I was responsible for the convention center on the west side. I did a lot of great deals, and I did them early and young. And now I’m building all over the world, and I love what I’m doing.

But they all said, a lot of the pundits on television, “Well, Donald will never run, and one of the main reasons is he’s private and he’s probably not as successful as everybody thinks.”

So I said to myself, you know, nobody’s ever going to know unless I run, because I’m really proud of my success. I really am.

I’ve employed — I’ve employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. That means medical. That means education. That means everything.

So a large accounting firm and my accountants have been working for months, because it’s big and complex, and they’ve put together a statement, a financial statement, just a summary. But everything will be filed eventually with the government, and we don’t extensions or anything. We’ll be filing it right on time. We don’t need anything.
And it was even reported incorrectly yesterday, because they said, “He had assets of $9 billion.” So I said (ph), “No, that’s the wrong number. That’s the wrong number. Not assets.”

So they put together this. And before I say it, I have to say this. I made it the old-fashioned way. It’s real estate. You know, it’s real estate.

It’s labor, and it’s unions good and some bad and lots of people that aren’t in unions, and it’s all over the place and building all over the world.

And I have assets — big accounting firm, one of the most highly respected — 9 billion 240 million dollars.

TRUMP: And I have liabilities of about $500 million (ph). That’s long-term debt, very low interest rates.

In fact, one of the big banks came to me and said, “Donald, you don’t have enough borrowings. Could we loan you $4 billion”? I said, “I don’t need it. I don’t want it. And I’ve been there. I don’t want it.”

But in two seconds, they give me whatever I wanted. So I have a total net worth, and now with the increase, it’ll be well-over $10 billion. But here, a total net worth of — net worth, not assets, not — a net worth, after all debt, after all expenses, the greatest assets — Trump Tower, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, Bank of America building in San Francisco, 40 Wall Street, sometimes referred to as the Trump building right opposite the New York — many other places all over the world.

So the total is $8,737,540,00.

Now I’m not doing that…
I’m not doing that to brag, because you know what? I don’t have to brag. I don’t have to, believe it or not.

I’m doing that to say that that’s the kind of thinking our country needs. We need that thinking. We have the opposite thinking.

We have losers. We have losers. We have people that don’t have it. We have people that are morally corrupt. We have people that are selling this country down the drain.

So I put together this statement, and the only reason I’m telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going, because if we have another three or four years — you know, we’re at $8 trillion now. We’re soon going to be at $20 trillion.TRUMP: According to the economists — who I’m not big believers in, but, nevertheless, this is what they’re saying — that $24 trillion — we’re very close — that’s the point of no return. $24 trillion. We will be there soon. That’s when we become Greece. That’s when we become a country that’s unsalvageable. And we’re gonna be there very soon. We’re gonna be there very soon.
Make America strong.
TRUMP: So, just to sum up, I would do various things very quickly. I would repeal and replace the big lie, Obamacare.
I would build a great wall, and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me, and I’ll build them very inexpensively, I will build a great, great wall on our southern border. And I will have Mexico pay for that wall.

TRUMP: Mark my words.
Nobody would be tougher on ISIS than Donald Trump. Nobody.
I will find — within our military, I will find the General Patton or I will find General MacArthur, I will find the right guy. I will find the guy that’s going to take that military and make it really work. Nobody, nobody will be pushing us around. I will stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons. And we won’t be using a man like Secretary Kerry that has absolutely no concept of negotiation, who’s making a horrible and laughable deal, who’s just being tapped along as they make weapons right now, and then goes into a bicycle race at 72 years old, and falls and breaks his leg. I won’t be doing that. And I promise I will never be in a bicycle race. That I can tell you.
I will immediately terminate President Obama’s illegal executive order on immigration, immediately.

Fully support and back up the Second Amendment.
Now, it’s very interesting. Today I heard it. Through stupidity, in a very, very hard core prison, interestingly named Clinton, two vicious murderers, two vicious people escaped, and nobody knows where they are. And a woman was on television this morning, and she said, “You know, Mr. Trump,” and she was telling other people, and I actually called her, and she said, “You know, Mr. Trump, I always was against guns. I didn’t want guns. And now since this happened” — it’s up in the prison area — “my husband and I are finally in agreement, because he wanted the guns. We now have a gun on every table. We’re ready to start shooting.”

I said, “Very interesting.”

So protect the Second Amendment.

End — end Common Core. Common Core should — it is a disaster. Bush is totally in favor of Common Core. I don’t see how he can possibly get the nomination. He’s weak on immigration. He’s in favor of Common Core. How the hell can you vote for this guy? You just can’t do it. We have to end — education has to be local.

Rebuild the country’s infrastructure.
Yeah.

Nobody can do that like me. Believe me. It will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.

I look at the roads being built all over the country, and I say I can build those things for one-third. What they do is unbelievable, how bad.

You know, we’re building on Pennsylvania Avenue, the Old Post Office, we’re converting it into one of the world’s great hotels. It’s gonna be the best hotel in Washington, D.C. We got it from the General Services Administration in Washington. The Obama administration. We got it. It was the most highly sought after — or one of them, but I think the most highly sought after project in the history of General Services. We got it. People were shocked, Trump got it.

Well, I got it for two reasons. Number one, we’re really good. Number two, we had a really good plan. And I’ll add in the third, we had a great financial statement. Because the General Services, who are terrific people, by the way, and talented people, they wanted to do a great job. And they wanted to make sure it got built.

TRUMP: So we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports. You come into La Guardia Airport, it’s like we’re in a third world country. You look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor. They throw down asphalt, and they throw.

You look at these airports, we are like a third world country. And I come in from China and I come in from Qatar and I come in from different places, and they have the most incredible airports in the world. You come to back to this country and you have LAX, disaster. You have all of these disastrous airports. We have to rebuild our infrastructure.

Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cuts. Have to do it.

Get rid of the fraud. Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it. People have been paying it for years. And now many of these candidates want to cut it. You save it by making the United States, by making us rich again, by taking back all of the money that’s being lost.

Renegotiate our foreign trade deals.
Yes.
Reduce our $18 trillion in debt, because, believe me, we’re in a bubble. We have artificially low interest rates. We have a stock market that, frankly, has been good to me, but I still hate to see what’s happening. We have a stock market that is so bloated.
Be careful of a bubble because what you’ve seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens. So be very, very careful.
And strengthen our military and take care of our vets. So, so important. Sadly, the American dream is dead. Bring it back. But if I get elected president I will bring it back bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and we will make America great again.

Thank you. Thank you very much. You look at Obamacare.  A total catastrophe and by the way it really kicks in in '16 and it is going to be a disaster.  People are closing up shops.  Doctors are quitting the business.  I have a friend of mine who's a doctor, a very good doctor, a very successful guy.  He said, I have more accountants than I have patients.  And he needs because it is so complicated and so terrible and he's never had that before and he's going to close up his business.  And he was very successful guy.  But it's happening more and more.
Look at Obamacare with a $5 billion website.  I have many websites, many, many websites.  They're all over the place.  But for $10, okay?
Now everything about Obamacare was a lie.  It was a filthy lie.  And when you think about it, lies, I mean are they prosecuted?  Does anyone do anything?  And what are the Republican politicians doing about it?  He lied about the doctor, he lied about every aspect.  You can keep your plan.  And you've all heard that hundreds of times.  That's like the real estate location, location.  I don't even say it anymore because everybody goes location, location.  But you have heard this about Obamacare.  
And it's disgraceful.  It's a big, fat, horrible lie.  Your deductibles are going through the roof.  You're not going to get--unless you're hit by an army tank, you're not going to get coverage.  And people that had plans that they loved, that they really loved, don't have those plans anymore.  So it's a real, real disaster.  And somebody has to repeal and replace Obamacare.  And they have to do it fast and not just talk about it.
Now, we have to build a fence.  And it's got to be a beauty.  Who can build better than Trump?  I build; it's what I do.  I build; I build nice fences, but I build great buildings.  Fences are easy, believe me.  I saw the other day on television people just walking across the border.  They're walking.  The military is standing there holding guns and people are just walking right in front, coming into our country.  It is so terrible.  It is so unfair.  It is so incompetent.  And we don't have the best coming in.  We have people that are criminals, we have people that are crooks.  You can certainly have terrorists.  You can certainly have Islamic terrorists.  You can have anything coming across the border.  We don't do anything about it.  So I would say that if I run and if I win, I would certainly start by building a very, very powerful border.

Again, the politicians talk about it and they do nothing about it.  Benghazi.  Oh, Benghazi, Benghazi.  Everything is Benghazi.  What happens?  Nothing.  
IRS, e-mails.  I get sued all the time, okay.  I run a big business.  You know I've always said it's very, very hard for a person who is very successful.  I have done so many deals.  Almost all of them have been tremendously successful.  You'll see that when I file my statements.  I mean you will see; you will be very proud of me, okay.  But I've always said, and I said it strongly, it's very hard for somebody that does tremendous numbers of deals to run for politics, run for political office, any office, let alone president.  Because you've done so much; you've beaten so many people; you've created so many--  Look, Obama, what did he do?  No deal.  He never did a deal.  He did one deal.  A house.  And if you did that house you'd be in jail right now, okay.  He got away with murder.  But I can tell you, e-mails.  IRS, the e-mails, thousands of them, they were lost; they were lost.  If you were in my world you would know that e-mails can't be lost; they can't be lost.  So why aren't our politicians finding out where those e-mails are?  
They talk about executive orders and they talk about immigration and they talk about oh well we have to stop the border; that's the end of it.  Believe me if I did something you would have a border that would be great.  But they talk about it.  And then you have a president that does an executive order.  Nobody even heard of an executive order.  He does it to let people come in and nobody does anything about executive orders.  Why didn't they go to court and ask for declaratory judgment--which is something that when you know somebody is going to go after you and when it's in writing, and he's been saying it for a long time; he said, I'm going to approve this and that--why didn't our Republicans go in and get a declaratory judgment from the courts because you could have started the process six months earlier.  Instead they have a weak lawsuit, that probably the time it's finished, I know so much about this, six, seven, eight years from now everyone's going to forget about it.  We'll be into a different mode, and our country will be further destroyed.  So we have to do something. 
Jobs.  China.  I mean I've made so much money fighting against the Chinese.  One of the best deals I ever did was against the Chinese, and they respect me for it.  And I know them.  And they say, we can't believe what we're getting away with.  We can't believe how stupid your leaders are.  They tell me that.  Now they don't know I'm going to go and make a speech about it, but why not.  But they tell me that.  
And by the way, especially for the folks here that sell so much--goods, I mean the goods you sell are incredible; I don't know if you've been watching what's happening with the devaluations of so many countries.  The Euro, China is going crazy with the devaluation.  I never thought that they'd have the guts to do what they're doing.  They are devaluing down to nothing.  And what it's going to do is make it impossible for you to sell your product; it's going make it impossible for you to compete.  And they're getting away with it.  And they wouldn't have even done it two years ago, but now they feel we're so weak and we have so many different problems all over the world that they can do it.  But you watch this devaluation of all of it.  I mean the Euro, China, Mexico; everybody is devaluing.  And when you hear the dollar is getting stronger, it sounds good.  You know it's one of those things, sounds good.  Be very careful.  Be very careful.  Because we're just going to lose more and more business to these foreign countries that really know what they are doing.  They have it set.  Don't forget another thing.  China became the number one economic power a year ago.  That was unthinkable; to think that that was going to happen.  It was absolutely unthinkable.  So it happened and it's very, very sad.  
Now we spent $2 trillion in Iraq.  We got nothing.  They don't even respect us; they don't even care about us.  Until they started getting their ass kicked, and call, oh please come back and help us.  We want you out; then all of the sudden a new group forms, ISIS.  By the way, you know how they formed.  They took the oil.  And for those of you that know and love Donald Trump--there are some of you--have I been saying for four years, keep the oil.  So now ISIS has the oil.  And the stuff that ISIS doesn't have, Iran is going to take.  So we get nothing.  We have $2 trillion and we have thousands of lives lost, thousands, and we have, what do we have.  I mean I walk down the streets of New York and I see so many wounded warriors, incredible people.  And we have to help those people, we have to help our vets, we have to help our military, we have to build our military.  But, and we have to do it fast; we have to do it fast.  We have incompetent people.  They put people in charge that have no clue what they're doing.  It needs money.  
We have to make our country rich again so we do that, so we can save Social Security.  'Cause I'm not a cutter; I'll probably be the only Republican that does not want to cut Social Security.  I'm not a cutter of Social Security; I want to make the country rich so that Social Security can be afforded, and Medicare and Medicaid.  Get rid of the waste, get rid of the fraud, but you deserve your Social Security; you've been paying your Security.  And like, I like Congressman Ryan, I like a lot of the people that are talking about you know cutting Social Security, and by the way the Democrats are eating your lunch on this issue.  It's an issue that you're not going to win; you've got to make the country rich again and strong again so that you can afford it, and so you can afford military, and all of the other things.  
Now, we have a game changer now, and the game changer is nuclear weapons.  We really do have to get strong, and we have to get strong fast.  We can't let Iran get a nuclear weapon.  We can't do it.  Can't do it.  We cannot let that happen.  You know in the old days, I would have said 100 years ago, 50 years ago, 30 years ago, pull out and let them fight each other.  
Here we are in Syria.  We're fighting people that want to overturn Syria.  Think of this.  We're fighting ISIS, but ISIS wants to overturn the government.  Maybe you let them fight for a little while and then you take out the one that remains, okay.  But think of it; think of it.  ISIS is fighting them and we are bombing the hell out of them, but we want Syria to fall.  There are so many things; there are so many things.  
But the one game changer that we have to be careful with, that we never really had to think about  too much before, other than a cetain number of years ago, is the nuclear.  Nuclear today, it's not like soldiers in uniforms shooting rifles.  You can take out the East Coast of this country, you can take out large sections of the Midwest, you can take out things that were unthinkable.  The power.  And we have to be in a position where that never, ever, ever, every happens.  We've never had this before.  
We have a situation in Afghanistan; we're spending tremendous amounts of money there.  We're trying to do the right thing.  We have leadership, again--no leadership respects us.  You know, leadership of other places never respect stupid people, okay, that's one thing you're going to find.  The same thing is happening there.  And I never knew that Afghanistan until a year ago or so, Afghanistan has tremendous wealth in minerals, different, not the oil, but minerals.  And we're fighting here, and on the other side of the mountain China is taking out all the minerals.  They're taking it out.  Trillion of dollars and millions of dollars of minerals.  So we're fighting here and they are taking it out, looking at us and saying thank you very much sucker.  It's really, really crazy.

So we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country.  If we don't--  The other day in Ohio a bridge collapsed.  Bridges are collapsing all over the country.  The reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable, what's happening with our infrastructure.
I go to Saudi Arabia, I go to Dubai; I am doing big jobs in Dubai.  I go to various different places.  I go to China.  They are building a bridge on every corner.  They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge like small time stuff.  They're building the most incredible things you have ever seen.  They are building airports in Qatar--which they like to say "cutter" but I've always said "qatar" so I'll keep it "qatar" what the hell.  But they're building, they're building an airport and have just completed an airport the likes of which you have never seen, in Dubai an airport the likes of which you have never seen.  And then I come back to LaGuardia where the runways have potholes.  The place is falling apart.  You go into the main terminal and they have a terraza floor that's so old it's falling apart.  And they have a hole in it, and they replace it with asphalt.  So you have a white terraza floor and they put asphalt all over the place.  This is inside, not outside.  And I just left Dubai where they have the most incredible thing you've ever seen.  In fact my pilot said oh Mr. Trump this is such an honor.  I said it's not an honor; they're just smart.  But you look at LAX, and you look at Kennedy Airport, and you look at our airports generally, you look at our roadways where they're crumbling.  
You look at all of the things that are bad--  I'll give you an example. And this isn't part of what I was going to say, but I ride down the highways and somebody makes those guard rails.  You know the guard rails.  The ones that sort of go like this [demonstrates with hand] that are always  bent, rusted and horrible.  Did you ever see more than like 20 feet which isn't corroded, or bent or the heat, if it gets too hot, it just crushes.  Now they've been selling this thing for 25 years.  Why doesn't someone stop them and get something that works.  Because they don't know; they don't know what's happening.  Somebody made a lot of money on that.  They don't know what is happening. 
So we have to make our country great again.  We have to rebuild our country.  And we have a long way to go.  We are just in such serious trouble because we owe so much money.  Now we owe it to the Chinese, a lot of it.  We owe it to other countries.  They're the ones that hold the debt.  And then we give them money.  We have countries that we owe money to and yet we're giving them subsidies.  I just ordered thousands of television sets and between LG and Samsung and I mean you know--  No American company comes to see and comes to bid.  It's South Korea, and whenever they have a problem we send the battleships, we send the destroyers, we send our airplanes, we're going to protect them.  What are we doing; why aren't they paying us?  Why aren't they paying us; what are we doing?  I order thousands and thousands of sets all the time, for some reason it's South Korea.  You know whether it's China, South Korea, but in this case televisions, South Korea.  Why aren't they doing something to justify what is going on?  
Now, we have a very important election coming up.  We have a presidential election coming up. And we have some good people.  Nobody like Trump of course, but these are minor details.  We have some good people.
It' can't be Mitt because Mitt ran and failed.  He failed.  I mean I liked him.  Look--like him, dislike him--the 47% statement that he made, that's not going away.  The Romneycare from Massachusetts, that's not going away.  What do you think they're going to say oh we won't bring that up this time.  It's not fair because it was a long t--  That doesn't work.  But more importantly, he choked.  Something happened to him in the last month.  He had that election won.  And let me tell you something.  That election, sort of like a dealmaker that can't close the deal.  I know many of those guys; they get it up to the one-yard line, they go ah, ah I can't close it.  Or a golfer that can't sink the three-footer to win the tournament.  And there are many of them.  Most people are like that; I mean most people are like that.  You can't give somebody another chance, 'cause actually I think this election is tougher to win than beating a failed president.  I really do.  I think beating Obama would have been a much easier one than the one that's coming up, which is sad to say but true.  So you can't have Romney.  He choked.
You can't have Bush.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now I made that statement very strongly, and now every one says the last thing--  You know they copied it.  I'll be accused of copying the statement; that's the bad thing.  But I said it.  I was the one that said it first, and I mean it.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now, he's totally in favor of Common Core; that's a disaster, that's bad, it should be local and all of that.  But he's totally in favor of Common Core.  He's very, very weak on immigration.  Don't forget--remember his statement--they come for love.  I say, what?  Come for love?  You've got these people coming, half of them are criminals.  They're coming for love?  They're coming for a lot of other reasons, and it's not love.  And when he runs, you got to remember his brother really gave us Obama.  I was never a big fan, but his brother gave us Obama.  'Cause Abraham Lincoln coming home back from the dead could not have won the election because it was going so badly and the economy was just absolutely in shambles that last couple of months.  And then he appointed Justice Roberts.  And Jeb wanted Justice Roberts.  And Justice Roberts basically approved Obamacare in a shocking decision that nobody believes.  So you can't have Jeb Bush.  And he's going to lose aside from that; he's not going to win.  So Mitt and--you just can't have those two.  That's it.  That's it.  It's so simple.
So just in summing up and I just wrote a few of these little points down because it's very important.  And I watch these teleprompters, and by the way I think any president candidate that runs should not be allowed to use a teleprompter, because we got one that uses teleprompters.  And people say, oh he is so quick on his feet.  He is reading it.  I mean give me a break.  Everything is read.  You don't really test the mettle of a man or a woman unless they can get up on stage and talk.  And that's what we ended up getting--the king of teleprompters.  But, so when I look at these things here I say you know what, it's so much easier, it would be so nice, just bah, pa, bah, pa, bah, bing, bing, bing.  No problems, get off stage, everybody falls asleep and that's the end of that.  But we have to do something about these teleprompters.  
But in looking at these situations--  I built an incredible company.  And you'll see that.  An incredible company; a wonderful company.  I employ thousands of people and I love doing what I'm doing.  And in a certain way, I wish I weren't doing this, but our country is in such trouble and would be so easy to fix.  We have such great potential.
So if I run for president and if I win, I would totally succeed in: 
creating jobs; 
defeating ISIS and stopping the Islamic terrorists--and you have to do that;
reducing the budget deficit--so important, have to do it;
securing our Southern border--and I mean seriously securing it;
stopping nuclear weapons in Iran and elsewhere; 
saving Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, without cutting it down to the bone because it's not fair to people that have been paying for their whole lives and other people and it's not fair to future people coming up, and we can do it;
repealing Obamacare and replacing it with something far better for the people, and far less expensive, both for the people and for the country.  And believe me there are plans that are so much better for everybody.  And everybody can be covered.  I'm not saying leave 50-percent of the people out.  Everybody can be c-- This plan is just a basic disaster.  Nobody knows.  As bad as the website was, this is how bad the plan itself is;
fixing our country's infrastructure, our bridges, our schools, our highways, our airports.  And that, I can tell you, nobody is close to Trump.  I just got the best hotel in North America.  I'm building, which is sort of interesting, think of this one.  I'm building one of the great hotels of the world on Pennsylvania Avenue, right opposite the White House, between the White House and Congress.  Right on Penn.--  The  Old Post Office site, and I got it from Obama.  Do you believe that?  And everybody wanted it.  So, I can't believe it myself.  But it's going to be fantastic;  
and so many other things. 
I know what needs to be done to make America great again.  We can make this country great again.  The potential is enormous.  And I am serious thinking of running for president because I can do the job.  
Thank you all very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you.  Beautiful.  Thank you.
TRUMP: Chris, thank you very much. I appreciate it.
This has been an amazing evening. Already, we’ve won five major states and it looks like we could win six or seven or eight or nine.
(APPLAUSE)
It’s really been — it’s really been great.
I want to congratulation Ted on the winning of Texas. He worked hard on he — I know how hard he worked actually, and so I congratulate Ted Cruz on that win. That was an excellent win.
We’re going to make America great again, folks. We’re going to make it great again.
And, you know, I watched Hillary’s speech and she’s talking about wages have been poor and everything’s poor and everything’s doing badly, but we’re going to make it — she’s been there for so long. I mean, if she hasn’t straightened it out by now, she’s not going to straighten it out in the next four years. It’s just going to become worse and worse. She wants to make America whole again and I’m trying to figure out what is that all about. Make America great again is going to be much better than making America whole again.
So I just want to say that this was an exciting evening. It’s so great to be in Florida. It’s so great to be at Mar-A-Lago with friends and the press and the media and everybody.
(APPLAUSE)
I know it was a very tough night for Marco Rubio. He had a tough night but he worked hard. He spent a lot of money. He is a lightweight, as I’ve said many times before. But you know what? We’re going to go to Florida, we’re going to spend so much time in Florida. We’ve got about a 20-point lead. I know that a lot of groups, a lot of the special interests and a lot of the lobbyists and the people that want to have their little senator do exactly as they want, they’re going to put $20 million or $25 million into it over the next two weeks, from what just came over the wires. And frankly, I think that’s fine. As far as I’m concerned, it’s fine. And if he wins, they’ll have totally controlled — total control. But he’s not going anywhere anyway, but we’ll see what happens. But we’re going to spend a lot of time in Florida.
The Virginia one was just a great win because it’s a place that is just spectacular and a place that we have big investments in, as we have in Florida. Remember, we have thousands of employees in Florida, all along Miami, Doral and Mar-A-Lago and so many other places. And it’s been an amazing place to invest. It’s been amazing to have so many wonderful employees, so many of whom are here tonight, really urging us on.
And you know, I have thousands of employees all over the country, actually, all over the world but for purposes of tonight, we’ll just say all over the country. And it’s been just so beautiful to watch this company grow and to watch it grow so strongly.
Recent articles came out talking about how great a company we built, and now we want to put that same ability into doing something for our nation. I mean, our nation is in serious trouble. We’re being chilled on trade, absolutely destroyed. China is just taking advantage of us. I have nothing against China. I have great respect for China, but their leaders are too smart for our leaders. Our leaders don’t have a clue and the trade deficits at $400 billion and $500 are too much. No country can sustain that kind of trade deficit. It won’t be that way for long. We have the greatest business leaders in the world on my team already and, believe me, we’re going to redo those trade deals and it’s going to be a thing of beauty.
You look at countries like Mexico, where they’re killing us on the border, absolutely destroying us on the border. They’re destroying us in terms of economic development. Companies like Carrier Air Conditioner just moving into Mexico. Ford, moving into Mexico. Nabisco, closing up shop in Chicago and moving into Mexico. We have to stop it, folks. I know how to stop it. We’re going to create jobs. We’re going to create jobs like you’ve never seen.
We’re going to lower taxes. I have a plan that Larry Kudlow and so many others think is the best plan they’ve seen. We’re going to lower taxes substantially for the middle class. The middle class has been forgotten in our country. It really helped and really probably was the predominant factor in making our country into a country that we all love so much and we’re all so proud of, but we’ve forgotten the middle class. So we’re going to lower taxes.
We’re lowering taxes on business. You look at all the companies that are moving out. When you see Pfizer moving to Ireland and you see so many other companies, constantly now they’re leaving. They used to move from New York to Florida, or they’d move from New Jersey to someplace else, Chris. But now they’re moving from here — (LAUGHTER) — not that many people are leaving New Jersey. But Chris understands the problem, fully understands. Now they’re leaving from places that they used to move to into other parts of the world. We can’t let that happen.
We’ve lost our manufacturing jobs. We’ve lost our manufacturing. Millions and millions of jobs, thousands and thousands and thousands of plants, manufacturing plants, warehouses. I mean, we are losing so much. We can’t let it happen.
I tell the story often about a friend of mine who is in the excavation business and he always orders Caterpillar. And recently, he ordered Komatsu tractors from Japan because they’ve cut the yen. They’ve devalued the yen to such an extent that it was virtually impossible for Caterpillar to compete. And I don’t want that to happen. That’s not going to happen. They shouldn’t be allowed to do it.
We have tremendous power over everybody because we are really the source. We have great, great power. The problem is we have politicians who truly, truly, truly don’t know what they’re doing. So we’re going to work very, very hard.
I’m so honored by this evening. If you would’ve told me on June 16th, when I was with my wife, Melania, and we came down the escalator in Trump Tower and it looked, literally, well, a little bit like this. You have a lot of cameras here tonight.
(APPLAUSE)
It looked, literally, like the Academy Awards. I never saw so many cameras in my life. And it takes courage to run. I’ll tell you what, it takes a lot of courage to run for president. I’ve never done this before. I’ve been a job-producer. I’ve done a lot of things but this is something I’ve never done, but I felt we had to do it. When you look at the incompetence of the Iran deal, where we give $150 billion, we get absolutely nothing. When you look at all of the problems our country has and you look at our military, which is really being depleted rapidly, depleted. We’re going to make our military bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and nobody, nobody, nobody is going to mess with us, folks, nobody.
(APPLAUSE)
So it’s just an amazing honor to have you with me tonight. And if you want, press, I think we told you before we’d be okay if you want to ask a few questions.
Yes, go ahead.
QUESTION: Mr. Trump, you said that your campaign is focused on uniting, no dividing.
TRUMP: Yeah, right.
QUESTION: (Inaudible) — would suggest you’re dividing not just the country but your party. There’s been a lot of pressure recently to either support or reject you within the Republican Party specifically. Some strongly worded statements coming out in recent days, including one from the senator from Nebraska, Ben Sasse, said, “If DonaldTrump ends up as the Republican nominee, conservatives will need to find a third-party option.”
What do you say?
TRUMP: Well, they can always do that and then they’ll — then they’ll just lose everything and that would be the — that would be the work of a loser.
But let me just explain something. If you’ve seen what’s happened, whether you go to South Carolina, where I had a huge victory, where we had a tremendous victory in New Hampshire, tremendous in Nevada, you look at what’s happened, and tonight, of course, is the best of all. I mean, right now, they’re projected I guess six, but we could be seven, eight, nine, and major states. It’s Georgia, Alabama, Massachusetts — (CHEERS) — Tennessee, Virginia. And you know, these are amazing states and we’re going to probably get a lot more. In fact, we’re projected to have some pretty good additional numbers.
But I will say this. Look, we have expanded the Republican Party. When you look at what’s happened in South Carolina and you see the kind of numbers that we got, in terms of extra people coming in. They came from the Democratic Party, or the Democrat Party, and they’re Democrats and they’re long-time Democrats and they were never going to switch and they all switched. And they were independents. And we’ve actually expanded the party. Look at the number of votes we had in that area, as an example. Four years ago, they had 390,000 or so votes. We doubled it. We were almost 800,000. Whereas the Democrats went down. There’s much less enthusiasm for the Democrats.
So I — look, I’m a unifier. I know people are going to find that a little bit hard to believe, but believe me, I am a unifier. Once we get all of this finished, I’m going to go after one person, that’s Hillary Clinton, on the assumption she’s allowed to run, which is a big assumption. I don’t know that she’s going to be allowed to run. And I think that’s, frankly, going to be an easy race. You see the polls. I beat Hillary in many polls. I know one thing. I don’t think Marco is going to be able to beat her. I don’t think — in all fairness, I think Ted’s going to have a very hard time. But Ted at least has a shot because at least he’s won a little bit.
So I just tell you this. We are going to be a much finer party, a much — we’re going to be a unified party, I mean, to be honest with you. And we are going to be a much bigger party, and you can see that happening. We’re going to be a much bigger party. Our party is expanding. And all you have to do it take a look at the primary states where I’ve won and just look — we’ve gone from X number to a much larger number. That hasn’t happened to the Republican Party in many, many decades. So I think we’re going to be more inclusive. I think we’re going to be more unified and I think we’re going to be a much bigger party, and I think we’re going to win in November. OK, yeah?
(APPLAUSE)
QUESTION: (Inaudible) the Republican nominee? And along those lines, (inaudible) Planned Parenthood —
TRUMP: Right.
QUESTION: Are you trying to inject your tone into a more general election (inaudible)?
TRUMP: I’m just doing what’s right. Look, Planned Parenthood has done very good work for some — for many, many — for millions of women. And I’ll say it and I know a lot of the so-called conservatives, they say that’s really — because I’m a conservative, but I’m a common-sense conservative. But millions of women have been helped by Planned Parenthood. But we’re not going to allow and we’re not going to fund as long as you have the abortion going on at Planned Parenthood, and we understand that and I’ve said it loud and clear. But — and we’ll see what happens. But Planned Parenthood — millions of people — and I’ve had thousands of letters from women that have been helped. And this wasn’t a setup. This was people writing letters. I’m going to be really good for women. I’m going to be good for women’s health issues. It’s very important to me, very important to me.
(APPLAUSE) And maybe that’s not a perfect conservative view, but I can tell you one thing. I’m more conservative than anybody on the military, on taking care of our vets, on the border, on the wall, on getting rid of Obamacare and coming up with something much, much better, and certainly, getting rid of common core and bringing education to a local level so that you’re going to have good education for our children who are being absolutely starved for proper education.
So Sarah, I mean, you know, you can call it what you want, but I am a truth-teller and I will tell the truth, OK?
Yeah, go ahead, finish it.
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)
TRUMP: I feel awfully good. I mean, I’m watching your people — I’m watching your people on — and I’m going to be very nice, I’m going to be very nice — I’m watching your people on CNN and I’m watching the Fox people and I’m watching the MSNBC people, too, OK? See? I’m becoming diplomatic. (LAUGHTER) And they are certainly being very nice to me tonight. I mean, you know, they’re being very strong. And they are, they’re declaring Marco Rubio the big loser of the night, which is true. He didn’t win anything. He hasn’t won anything, period.
And by the way, and I have to tell you — and he was very, very nasty. I’ve never heard a person get up and speak on an evening like this and be so nasty, but he’s got a right to be nasty. He hasn’t won anything and he’s not going to win very much.
But I do congratulate Ted because I know how hard Ted worked on Texas and it’s a big get. Now I also did very well in Texas. I came in second. And one of the things my son, Eric, told me, which I didn’t even realize, is that not only did I win most of the states — and some are coming in and I’m expected to win them — but I came in second — I came in no worse than second. So it wasn’t like I won and then I disappeared. The worst I had was a second. So I’m very, very honored by the turnout, OK?
Yes, go ahead.
QUESTION: Mr. Trump, in Washington today, Paul Ryan, speaker of the House, and majority leader, Mitch McConnell, felt it necessary to suggest that you had not been clear enough or critical about the role of hate groups, KKK —
TRUMP: Right.
QUESTION: (Inaudible)
TRUMP: Right. Oh, they’re totally wrong. Look, I disavowed. I disavowed when I — in fact, Chris is my number one — Chris gave me the honor of joining the campaign. He called me. He said, “Donald, what you’ve got is a movement.” We spoke today in Kentucky. You’ve never seen a crowd like that. That had to be 20,000 people inside this massive convention center and it was incredible. And every place we’re speaking, if we have 10,000 people it’s like a small group. We had 35,000 people the other day in Alabama. And when Chris called, he said this is a movement; this is something like I’ve never seen. And in all fairness to the press, a lot of the press have said the same thing. They’ve never seen what’s happening right now. They’ve never seen anything like it. And I’m just honored by it.
Now, when Chris joined, we had a news conference and they asked me the exact same question. I said I disavow. Now, right after the program that we’re talking about — and I thought it was clear, but you know, we’re talking about groups, groups, groups. I do have to know the name of the group because, who knows? I mean, they have to give me the name of the group. But right after, when I reviewed it, I put out a tweet and I put out on Facebook that I totally disavow. Now everybody knew I did that but the press refused to look at that. It was right after. And I disavowed then; I disavowed today on ABC with George Stephanopoulos, I disavowed again. I mean, how many times are you supposed to disavow? But I disavow and hopefully it’s the final time I have to do it. But if you look at Facebook and if you look at Twitter, right after the show I put out a statement because I want everybody to be sure.
Yes, go ahead.
QUESTION: Mr. Trump, you call yourself a negotiator, a deal- maker. Is this campaign just the start of a negotiation for you, taking extreme positions in order to move toward the middle?
TRUMP: No, it’s not, but there is always going to be some negotiation, and it’s going to be a good negotiation, not a bad negotiation. It’s going to be a negotiation where we’ll start at certain levels and hopefully I will make a great deal, and lots of great deals, for the American people.
So you know, look, you can’t go around just signing our little notices that the president signs all the time, executive orders, he’s done executive order, executive order. It’s almost like, I don’t even know. Does he ever go a deal with Congress anymore? Does he ever speak to the Senate? Does he ever speak with congressmen and get them into a room and get things done?
You know, a good example of this, in all fairness, is something that I — is very, very important to me; corporate inversion. Carl Icahn, who’s a friend of mine who endorsed me, great businessman, he — it bothers him so much he calls me about it all the time, where we’re losing companies. And we’re losing for two reasons. We’re losing for a lot of reasons but the taxes are too high. We have the highest — we’re the highest taxed nation in the world.
And very importantly, they have trillions, for companies, trillions of dollars outside of this country. The Democrats agree it should be brought back in. The Republicans agree it should be brought back in. Everybody agrees it should be brought back in. I could sit in a room — or the Oval Office — for a period of, literally, a half hour and I really believe I could get everybody — every single — you know, it’s one thing they don’t agree on health care or they don’t agree on common core or they don’t agree on other things and they’ll fight. Here’s something every single — I mean, almost everybody agrees. These trillions and trillions of dollars should be brought into the country.
The president can’t make a deal. The reason is he doesn’t know how to make a deal, probably doesn’t work at it, probably doesn’t care, but you’re talking about tremendous number of — tremendous amounts of money. So when you have something that everybody wants and you can’t make a deal, there’s something going on that’s really wrong. And what it means is you have the wrong leader.
Yes?
QUESTION: (Inaudible.) Is immigration negotiable?
TRUMP: Well, look, everything — we are going to have a wall. I can tell you we are going to have a wall. I watched the ex-president of Mexico, the arrogance of this man. And I get along great with Hispanics. You saw in Nevada, I won in the poll, the Hispanic vote. I have thousands of people that work for me right now that are Hispanic. I’ve had thousands and thousands over my lifetime. These are great people. The Mexican leaders are too smart for our leaders and you saw it. Vincente Fox, first of all, he used a word that you should never have — if I ever used that word you folks would’ve never, ever, ever let me get away with it. Nobody even talked about the word he used and this is the ultimate word. But he was angry at the concept of somebody saying that they were going to pay for the wall. Mexico is going to pay for the wall. We have a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 billion a year — $58 billion. The wall is going to cost $10 billion. It’s so easy. I’ve had these guys that I’m on the stage with go you don’t really mean Mexico is going to pay for the wall. One — as sure as you’re standing there, 100 percent, Mexico’s going to pay, 100 percent.
(APPLAUSE)
And the reason is I’m a businessman. I know how to do this. Politicians are all talk, no action. It’s not going to — except for Chris Christie, of course. (LAUGHTER) It’s not — look, it’s not going to happen. It’s not going to happen with these people.
So when you think of it — and then they say you’ll never be able to build a wall. Well, it’s 2,000 miles but we really need 1,000 miles. The Great Wall of China, built 2,000 years ago, is 13,000 miles, folks, and they didn’t have Caterpillar tractors, because I only want to use Caterpillar, if you want to know the truth, or John Deere. I buy a lot of equipment from John Deere. I love John Deere, too. But they didn’t have tractors. They didn’t have cranes. They didn’t have excavation equipment. The wall is 13,000 miles long. We need 1,000 miles and we have all of the materials. We can do that so beautifully. And this is going to be a serious wall. This is going to be high wall. This is going to be a very serious wall.
We’re going to stop drugs from coming into New Hampshire. You know, when I won New Hampshire, those people were so incredible to me. And when you go, you wouldn’t believe it because it’s so bucolic, so beautiful. You look at the fields and you look at everything, it’s so beautiful. And yet, you go to a meeting in New Hampshire, their number one problem, their number one problem is heroine. The heroine is pouring in and they have so many of their young people and other people addicted. And I told them I’m going to stop it. I’m going to stop it. We’re going to have a strong border, and I mean strong.
And by the way, speaking of people, people are going to come in and they’re going to come into this country, but they’re going to come in legally, OK?
QUESTION: (Inaudible)
TRUMP: I have a lot of respect for Rick Scott. I don’t know about his endorsement but he’s a friend of mine. I have a lot of respect for Rick Scott.
Yeah?
QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)
TRUMP: I’ve got to find out what’s going on. We’ve got a big problem. We have a big, big problem. I’ll tell it like it is. We have a big, big problem. We’ve got to figure it out. We’re going to figure it out. Radical Islamic terrorism, big, big problem, not only for us. You take a look at Germany, you take a look at Sweden, you take a look at Brussels. You look at some of these places, it’s like a disaster. And we’re not going to allow people to come into our country who we have no idea who they are, we have no idea where they come from, they have no paperwork, they’re young and they’re strong. You look at that migration line; they’re young, they’re strong, they’re powerful. And you say why aren’t they back fighting for their country?
Now, with all of that being said, I feel strongly — I have a bigger heart than anybody. We’re going to build a safe zone. It’s going to be in Syria. And I’m going to get the Gulf states, who have more money than anybody — we’ve got to loosen up their wallets a little bit. We’re going to get — but they’re not accepting people. We’re going to get — wait, wait, wait. We’re going to get the Gulf states to pay for it because they should.
TRUMP: You heard what I said. I gave you a good answer. You heard what I said.
Yes, go ahead?
QUESTION: Mr. Trump, if you are indeed the nominee who versus Hillary Clinton in the fall, what are you going to do to bring back some of these (inaudible) your campaign so far, such as the Muslims?
TRUMP: Oh, we’re going to bring them back. We’re going to bring them back. Look, I’m telling you — you know how I’m going to bring them back? First of all, we’re going to do great with the African- Americans, and you see that in the polls where I had in one poll where I’m 25 percent. And one of the commentators, who I think is standing right at the back of the room in the corner, said, you know, if Donald Trump gets 25 percent of the African-American vote, this election is over. You watch. And the reason I’m getting that — and I’m going to do great with the Hispanics. I’m going to do great with virtually every group. The reason is I’m going to bring jobs back. I’m going to get Apple to start making their computers and their iPhones on our land, not in China. How does it help us when they make it in China?
So I’m going to create jobs.
Go ahead.
If Marco Rubio cannot win Florida, is it time for him to get out? And do you plan to spend the $25 million that (inaudible)?
Well, look, I always liked Marco until about a week ago when he decided to go hostile. He decided to become Don Rickles, OK? But Don Rickles has a lot more talent. Honestly, I did, I always liked him but he became — you know, somebody told him you’re losing very badly. The only way you can possibly win, take the hail Mary, they called it a hail Mary, the folks in the back, and go hostile. It’s hurt him. In fact, one of the newscasts tonight said he went down 15 or 20 percent. It’s really hurt him.
But look, I’m not going to tell him what to do. I’m not going to tell anybody what to do. You have to run. He had a bad night, according to CNN, Fox. I watched their broadcasts. They say the loser of the night was Marco Rubio and it’s true. He didn’t win anything. He hasn’t won. I mean, at least you can say that Ted has won something, and you know, Marco has not won. You’ve got to be able to win. You can’t talk. You know, these politicians, all talk, no action. You’ve got to be able to win something. He hasn’t won anything. And he actually hasn’t come very close. So we’ll see what happens.
Yes, go ahead.
Mr. Trump, (inaudible) this question earlier, it was about working with Congress. You criticized President Obama for not working with Congress but dismissed the criticism from Speaker Ryan and from Senate Majority Leader McConnell. (Inaudible) about this issue would be —
I wasn’t equivocating. Let’s not ask it again. How many times do I say — listen, who are you, by the way? Who do you — where are you with?
 OK, very good. Good job.
Look, I don’t want to waste a lot of time. I’ve disavowed — OK, I’m going to get along great with Congress, OK? Paul Ryan, I don’t know him well but I’m sure I’m going to get along great with him. And if I don’t, he’s going to have to pay a big price, OK? OK.
Yeah, go ahead, go ahead. On the right, go ahead. Yes?
I’m going to be a good president for the world but we have a country that’s in big trouble. Our infrastructure is going to hell, our roads, our highways, our schools, our hospitals, our airports. I go throughout the world. I mean, you go to Qatar, you go to — some people say Qatar, but you go to Qatar, you go to any of — so many places. You go to different places in China, different places in Asia, different places in the Middle East, you look at some of the airports they have. You look at the roadways they have. You look at the transportation systems they have and the trains they have. We’re like a third world country.
So I am going to be very good for the world. I’m going to get along with the world. You’re going to be very proud of me. Even you will be very proud of me as a president. But we have to rebuild our country. Our country is going to hell and people don’t understand that.
And Hillary Clinton doesn’t have a clue. She can’t do that. She’s talking about — I mean, one of the things that has really bothered me, I think one of the reasons I have such great support, is that people, you take a look, people in the middle-income groups are making less money today — less money than they made 12 years ago. And in her speech, she just said they’re making less money. Well, she’s been there with Obama for a long period of time. Why hasn’t she done anything about it? Practically everything that she was complaining about — she’s picked up what I say. The difference is she’s been there for a long period of time. Why haven’t they done anything about it?
Then you look at her record as secretary of State. It’s abysmal. You look at what’s going on with Syria. You look at what’s going on with everything. It’s a disaster.
So we’re going to have an interesting period of time. I don’t know that she’s going to be allowed to run. What she did is a criminal act. If she’s allowed to run I would be very, very surprised. But if she’s allowed to run, honestly, it’ll be a sad day for this country because what she did was wrong. And what she did — (CHEERS) — let me just tell you, what she did was wrong and other people have done far less than her and they paid a very, very big price.
OK, one or two more questions. Yeah, go ahead, Jeremy.
You talked about how you plan to deport all the undocumented immigrants living in this country. And yesterday, you said that everything is negotiable, that your immigration plan is potentially negotiable.
Where did I say that? Where did I say it, Jeremy? Where? Where? Where? Tell me where. Tell me where.
I didn’t say that. Yeah, I’ll negotiate. If the walls going to be 50 feet, I’ll take two feet off the wall. You didn’t listen, Jeremy.
(Inaudible) and would you consider allowing the people who you’ve said you would bring back into the country, would you allow them to stay in the country without having to leave the country?
At this moment, absolutely not, no. We either have a country or we don’t. We have a country, or we don’t. We have borders or we don’t have borders. And at this moment, the answer is absolutely not.
OK, how about one or two more questions? David, go ahead. Make it a nice question, David, please.
QUESTION: We’re hearing some suggestions, including some from a few of your former aides, that some people inside the Republican National Committee are considering monkey-wrenching with your delegates at the state level, trying to clear you away (inaudible).
I think — you know, David, I — OK, go ahead.
At the end of the night, you may very well have maybe sewed up 10 of the 15 states at this point. Is that enough of a (inaudible) that the RNC should just commit to honoring their agreement with you or
Well, look, I don’t expect — I have a lot of respect for Reince and for the group and I like the RNC and I don’t know that I’ve been treated fairly or not. I really don’t know. I can’t tell you that. But I can tell you that I do respect them.
What I really have is a great number of people. I have millions and millions of people. And when I was watching this broadcast just a little while ago, before I came in here because I wanted to see exactly where we were before I started speaking, I was amazed at the kind of numbers. The Republicans have tremendous energy. The Democrats don’t. They don’t have any energy. Their numbers are down. Our number are through the roof. And people are making the statements they’ve never seen, in modern times, a party that was so energized.
I think if somebody is doing as well as I’m doing — and I’m not just speaking for myself, whether it be me or anybody else — but if I’m going to win five — I’ve already won five, but maybe it could be six, seven, eight, nine. It could be nine, could win nine states tonight. If I’m going to win all of these states with tremendous numbers, and if I’m going to come in the worst is second in the two or three that I might not win, I think, you know, we’re a democracy. I think it’s awfully hard to say that’s not the person we want to lead the party, right? You know, it’s very hard.
But I really think that — I think it’s a great question, David, because I really think that one of the biggest things that everybody is seeing happening, and everybody, is the Republican Party has become more dynamic. It’s become more diverse. We’re taking from the Democrats. We’re taking from the independents. We have a lot more people. We have a lot more people. I mean, take a look at South Carolina. Look at the numbers. Look at the numbers from four years ago when nobody even wanted to waste their time and vote. And then you look at — I was there and you had lines that went a mile long. And it was virtually more than doubled.
So we have a very, very dynamic party and I think we’re going to be able to unify the party. I hope to be able to get along with everybody. I don’t know Paul Ryan well but I hope to be able to get along with him. I do know Mitch McConnell a little bit but I hope to be able to get along with him. But remember this. I have millions and millions and millions of people. This isn’t like it’s a close match. I mean, it’s only too bad that winner didn’t take all, because if winner took all, this thing is over. We’re just having a celebration.
You know, we’re having a celebration.
So anyway, I would like to — look, I just want to end by thanking everybody. This has been an amazing period in my life. My wife just called and Ivanka, as you know, is going to be having a baby very soon and she’s a special person and it’s going to be great and we look forward to that. She’s back in New York. She wanted to be here. They all wanted to be here but they’re with Ivanka now and that could be, certainly, within the next week. But this this has been an amazing period of time. It’s been amazing for me, even from an educational standpoint. And I think, honestly, we’ve done something that almost nobody thought could be done and I’m very proud of it.
And I just want to leave you with this. I am a unifier. I would love to see the Republican Party and everybody get together and unify. And when we unify, there’s nobody, nobody that’s going to beat us.
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you.

Thank you very much, everybody. Well, I want to begin by thanking the people of South Carolina. This is a special state. Thank you. These are special people and we got a little boost last week from a place we all remember -- New Hampshire. We can't forget it. Special, special. We love it. And they sent us in here with a very good feeling, right?
Very good feeling. So I really want to thank you and my volunteers. All of these people -- volunteers and they travel and they -- and I say, "what are you doing?" And now they're going to Texas and they're going all over. Some are going to Nevada. I'll be going to Nevada. We're making a big speech tomorrow in Atlanta and then we're going right to Nevada.

And I think we're going to do terrific and the SEC's (ph) going to be very, very exciting. We expect to do very, very well. Very well ...
I want to just say thank you to my family. It's been not easy for them. They don't see me anymore. I'm making speeches all the time and I have a great. I really have a great family so I just want to thank all of you.

And Ivanka -- you know we have a hospital ready just in case. In South Carolina we're going to have a baby. There's nothing wrong with that, right? So ...
Could be -- it could be any second. It could even be before I'm finished but it's -- but she insisted on being here. It was so important to Ivanka to insist on being here so thank you. Really good and Jared, Vanessa, Don.

We have a wonderful lieutenant governor who backed us very early in the process.
You know Henry, right? The lieutenant governor of South Carolina. I will take him over the governor anytime because we won. We won ...
He handle that very nicely. He's tough. He's very tough. Tiffany, Eric, Lara and Melania. Melania, say something. Go ahead, please ...
Just want to say an amazing place -- South Carolina. Congratulation to my husband. He was working very hard and he loves you. We love you and we're going ahead to Nevada. And we will see what happen (sic). He would be the best president ...

And representing some very, very wonderful children, Ivanka. Just say a few words.
Thank you, South Carolina. This is an amazing, amazing night. The momentum since the beginning of this campaign has been unbelievable and that's because my father's message resonants so deeply with so many people. So as our family we're incredibly proud. We're incredibly grateful to each of you so thank you for being here to support us. And I will say this, my father is an incredibly hard worker and he'll be working for each and every one of you. So together we'll make America great again. Thank you ...

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: Thank you very much. Thank you very much. So I was watching upstairs and it was really amazing to be watching what I was watching. And some of the pundits and overall fair but not too much. But a number of the pundits said, "well, if a couple of the other candidates dropped out if you add their scores together it's going to equal Trump."

But these geniuses -- they're geniuses -- they don't understand that as people drop out I'm going to get a lot of those votes also. You don't just ...

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: You don't just add them together. So I think we're going to do very, very well. I think we're going to do very well. I want to also congratulate the other candidates. In particular I have to say Ted and Marco did a really good job and they got -- they did quite well as I understand. No, come on. Just one minute. Come on. One second, right? Good.

OK. We go back to war tomorrow morning. Tomorrow morning we'll be back but I just want to congratulate the other candidates. There's nothing easy about running for president, I can tell you. It's tough, it's nasty, it's mean, it's vicious, it's beautiful.

(LAUGHTER)

D. TRUMP: When you win it's beautiful and we're going to start -- we are going to start winning for our country. We're going to start winning.

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: Because our country doesn't win anymore. Doesn't win. We don't win with the military, we can't beat ISIS. We have great military but we can't beat ISIS. We don't win on trade. You look at what China's doing to us, what Japan does to us, what Mexico is just killing us at the border -- at the border and with trade. Mexico is killing us -- absolutely. We'll do the wall. Don't worry. We're going to do the wall.

(APPLAUSE) D. TRUMP: We're going to do the wall and by the way, who's going to pay for the wall?

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: Mexico's going to pay for the wall and it's very easy. The other politicians come down, "you can't get Mexico to pay for the wall." I said, "100 percent." We have a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. The wall is going to cost $10 to $12 billion, OK? Believe me, they will pay. One of the officials -- actually, one of the ex-officials from Mexico had a news conference.

And he announced that we will not be paying for the wall. Who does Mr. Trump think he is? They came to me -- the press. These people -- look at all those cameras back there.

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: The press came to me and they told me that he said that he would not pay for the wall. Do you have a comment? I said, "yes. The wall just got 10 feet taller."

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: It's true. And I love Mexico. I love Mexico, I love China, I love many of these countries that rip us off because we have leaders that are incomptent and don't know what they're doing. I love these countries. They're great. I have thousands and thousands of Hispanics. We're going to Nevada.

I lead -- I lead with the Hispanics. I'm leading in every poll with the Hispanics. They love me, I love them. The problem is -- the problem is that the leaders of these countries whether it's Mexico or Japan or Viet Nam which is just doing a big number now all of a sudden or China in particular -- that's the big one. The greatest abuse of a country that I think I've ever seen financially -- China.

What they've done to us is the greatest single theft in the history of the world. They've taken our jobs, they've taken our money, they've taken everything. We're bringing our jobs back, folks. We're bringing our jobs back. We're going to bring them back ...

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: And I know how to do it. We've had so many -- we've had so many incredible endorsements and to me getting the greatest business people to endorse me is very important. Carl Icahn endorsed me, so many others have endorsed me.

And we're going to put these great business people in charge of trade and when China wants to come and negotiate, they're going to negotiate not with a political hack which is what they have now. They're going to negotiate with the best business minds in the world and we have them in this country.

(APPLAUSE) D. TRUMP: So we're going to do a lot of beautiful work. We're going to terminate Obamacare. It's going to terminated. It's going to be over ...

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: It's going to be repealed and it's going to be replaced. And you're going to have much better health care at a much smaller cost because Obamacare -- if you look -- look at the increases in your Obamacare. Twenty-five, 35, 45, even 55 percent. It's dead. It's not working. We're going to go to a plan that's going to be so much better and so much less expensive.

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: So second amendment by the way -- this is a room loves the second amendment. Thank you, fellows. This is a room loves and cherishes the second amendment. We are going to protect our second amendment. Totally ...

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: Common core is gone. We are getting rid of common core. We're brining education to a local level. The people in this community -- every time I see them they want education locally. The parents, the teachers. They want to do it -- they don't want bureaucrats in Washington telling them how to educate their children.

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: We spend as a nation more for education per pupil than any other nation in the world. Not even close. More per pupil -- second place doesn't even exist it's so different. And yet out of 30 countries we're ranked number 30. You have China, you have Norway, Swenden, Denmark and then you have number 30, the United States. So we spend the most and we're at the bottom of the heap. It's not going to happen anymore, folks. It's not going to happen anymore.

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: We are going to build our military which I thank because a number of the people came down and a number of the pundits in Washington I -- we love our military.

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: We love our military. And by the way we love our police. Our police are terrific. We love our police ...

(APPLAUSE)

D. TRUMP: They are not being treated properly. We're going to build our military so big, so good, so strong, so powerful that nobody is ever going to mess with us, folks.

(APPLAUSE) D. TRUMP: And we're going to buy -- we're going to buy the equipment that our generals, our soldiers, that everybody that's in the know want. We're not buying equipment that sells because they have political pull (ph). Because they take campaign and they give campaign contributions.

We are going to get the equipment that they want, not the equipment that they're told to have by senators and congressmen in Washington. We're going to have great equipment.

And the reason I can say that is I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm not getting millions of dollars from all of these ...


I'm not getting millions of dollars from all of these special interests and lobbyists and donors that once they get it they literally do whatever the politicians want. That's not going to happen. And we're going to take care of our vets. We love our vets and they're being treated terribly. We're taking care of our vets.

So we're now off to Nevada and it's a great state. We have great people. We have great people in our nation. No matter where we go -- I went to Mobile, Alabama -- 35,000 people. We went to Oklahoma recently twice -- 20,000 people, 20,000 people. No matter where we go we fill up the arenas.

Over here the other day we had a 9,000 -- we had a 10,000 -- we have people. The only thing that stops the crowds are the walls because we can't get them in. We have to send thousands of people away.

Time Magazine -- Time Magazine last year did an incredible cover story. They said "it's a movement." And that's what it is. It's an incredible movement with incredible people. Incredible people.

It's an incredible movement with incredible people. I tell you. And whether we go -- honestly whether we go to Dallas or whether we go anywhere you say -- you go to L.A. -- you go anywhere you say. Our people are incredible. And our theme -- what's our theme? You know it, right?

Our theme which I love may be the greatest theme of all time, right? And the word again eventually is going to come off. We're going to get rid of the whole theme because what's going to happen -- make America great again, right?

And the last two weeks because I've gotten to see so many -- I guess millions when you add them all up with all of these rooms and all of these speeches. And I've met so many people. But the people are so incredible that I've been saying make America great again and it's going to be greater than ever before. That's the kind of potential we have. Greater then every before.
D. TRUMP: So I want to thank everybody. I love you all. Again, South Carolina we will never forget you. We will never forget you. We will never, ever forget South Carolina. We will never forget our great volunteers. We love our volunteers. We'll never forget all of the people that have helped us so much. My family and folks, let's go.
Let's have a big win in Nevada. Let's have a big win at SEC (ph). Let's put this thing away and let's make America great again. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
D. TRUMP: Thank you, everybody.
Oh boy. We love Nevada. We love Nevada. Thank you. Thank you. Oh this is a great place. Thank you very much. Great evening. We will be celebrating for a long time tonight. Have a good time. Have a good time.

You know we weren't expecting — a couple of months ago, we weren't expecting to win this one, you know that, right? We weren't. Of course if you listen to the pundits, we weren't expected to win too much, and now we're winning, winning, winning the country. And soon the country's going to start winning, winning, winning.

We've had some great numbers coming out of Texas, and amazing numbers coming out of Tennessee and Georgia and Arkansas and then in a couple of weeks later Florida. We love Florida so. We're going to do very well in Ohio. We're beating the governor. It's always nice to be beating the governor.

And Michigan — the whole thing. It's going to be an amazing two months. We might not even need the two months, folks, to be honest.

So I want to begin by thanking my boys, Eric has been all over the place making speeches. He's getting better than me so I'm a little jealous. And Don … you were all over, right? He loves the rifle stuff. This is serious rifle. This is serious NRA, both of them, both of them. We love the Second Amendment folks, nobody loves it more than us, so just remember that.

I want to just thank a couple of friends of mine that are here, the owner of this incredible hotel, Mr. and Mrs. Phil Ruffin, stand up. Great guy. Phil said, "Donald," — like for the last three months he's driving me crazy, he said — "Donald, I want to put $10 million into your campaign. I said, 'Phil I don't want your money. I don't want to do it. I'm self-funding.' "

Every time I see him. It's hard for me to turn down money because that's what I've done in my whole life, I grab and grab and grab. You know I get greedy I want money, money. I'll tell you what we're going to do, right? We get greedy right? Now we're going to get greedy for the United States we're going to grab and grab and grab. We're going to bring in so much money and so much everything. We're going to make America great again, folks, I'm telling you folks we're going to make America great again.

So this was very exciting tonight. But I'll tell you it looks like we won by a lot evangelicals. … It's been amazing, the relationship. So we won the evangelicals. We won with young. We won with old. We won with highly educated. We won with poorly educated. I love the poorly educated.

We're the smartest people, we're the most loyal people, and you know what I'm happy about? Because I've been saying it for a long time. Forty-six percent were the Hispanics — 46 percent, No. 1 with Hispanics. I'm really happy about that.

So I'm very proud of you, this is an amazing night. I love the country, I love the country. We're going in the wrong direction. We're going to keep — as you know Gitmo, we're keeping that open, and we're going to load it up with bad dudes. We're going to load it up with a lot of bad dudes out there.

We're going to have our borders nice and strong. We're going to build the wall, you know that. We're going to build the wall. And I have a lot of respect from Mexico and you just heard we won Hispanics. But let me tell you Mexico is going to pay for the wall, right? It's going to happen. It's going to happen. They know it. I know it. We all know it.

We have a tremendous deficit. We have a trade deficit with Mexico. They'll pay for the wall. They'll be very happy about it. Believe me. I'll talk to them. They're going to be very, very thrilled. They're going to be thrilled to be paying for the wall.

We're going to be the smart people. We're not going to be the people that get pushed around all over the place. We're going to be the smart people. You're going to be proud of your president, and you're going to be even prouder of your country, okay?

The people of this country are absolutely amazing. I love you folks very much. Remember: Make America great again. We're going to do it, and it's going to happen fast. Thank you very much everybody. We love you. We love you.

TRUMP: Oh, wow! wow, wow, wow! So beautiful. So beautiful.

(APPLAUSE) We are going to make America great again.

(CHEERING)

So I want to thank everybody. But I really have to begin by paying homage to my parents, Mary and Fred. They are up there. They are looking down. They're saying, this is something very special. They love this country, and they're very happy right now. So thank you to my parents.

(APPLAUSE)

I want to thank my sister, Judge Barry, Maryanne, a really great sister, another great sister, Elizabeth. My fantastic brother, Robert, who is watching right now with Ann Marie (ph), and I want to thank my brother, my late brother, Fred, what a fantastic guy. I learned so much from Fred. Taught me more than just about anybody. Just probably about even with my father, a fantastic guy. So I want to thank Fred. He's up there and he's looking down also.

(APPLAUSE)

And we can go right down the line, but we have to start with Melania, what he she puts up with.

(APPLAUSE)

And she said that right from day one, reason you're going to win, so, Melania, thank you, honey. Than you.

And Don and Vanessa, thank you so much.

And Ivanka, she was out. She made seven stops today at the polling areas.

(APPLAUSE)

So, very, very special. And Jared. Jared is a very, very successful real estate entrepreneur in Manhattan. But he likes this better than real estate I think.

(CHEERS)

So, Jared, thank you.

And Lara (ph) and Eric (ph). And they were all out today and it was amazing. And Corey (ph). Where is Corey? Does Corey have a ground game or what?

(CHEERS)

Boy do we have a ground game. Where's Corey? Corey? Corey Lewendowski (ph).

(APPLAUSE) You know we learned a lot about ground games in one week. I have to tell you that. And the entire staff -- and Hope picks -- this is Hope. This is Hope. This is Hope. Nobody takes more phone calls I think in a day than Hope. So thank you, Hope and Corey and the entire group, the entire staff. Incredible job.

Get over here. Come here. The man.

(CHEERS)

AUDIENCE: USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.

TRUMP: So again, we have to thank the candidates because they really ran. We have some very talented people. And to be victorious against some of these people, even if it's for one week, but believe it's going to be for many weeks, OK?

(CHEERS)

But they really are, they're terrific. A number of them called and I just wanted to thank them. But I wanted to congratulate the other candidates. OK?

Now that I got that over with. You know it's always tough. And then tomorrow boom, boom. But that's the way it is. And really you have some real talent. We have some real talent in the Republican Party and the RNC and (inaudible). We want to thank everybody. Thank you very much.

We -- yes right, right. Well, I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what. What do we really want to thank right? We want to thank the people of New Hampshire right?

(CHEERS)

Do we love the people of New Hampshire?

(APPLAUSE)

You know, I said it and I said it even a year ago. I said I think I'm going to do really well there because I'm here a lot. And it's so beautiful. And I love it so much. And I love the people. And I said I actually think they like me a lot.

And then all of a sudden we started getting numbers in. And everyone said how come they like Trump so much? But I have so many friends up here. And they are special, special people.

So, New Hampshire, I want to thank you. We love you. We're going to be back a lot. We're not going to forget you. You started it. Remember, you started it.

(CHEERS)

AUDIENCE: Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump.

TRUMP: You started it.

AUDIENCE: USA. USA.

(CHEERS)

TRUMP: You know when I came out I heard the end of Bernie's speech. And I heard some of the beginning. No, no...

AUDIENCE: Boo.

TRUMP: I -- first of all, congratulations to Bernie. In all fairness we have to congratulate him. We may not like it. But I heard parts of Bernie's speech. He wants to give away our country, folks. He wants to give away -- we're not going to let it happen. We're not going to let it happen. I don't know where it's going with Bernie. We wish him a lot of luck.

But we are going to make America great again. But we're going to do it the old fashioned way. We're going to beat China, Japan. We're going to beat Mexico at trade. We're going to beat all of these countries that are taking so much of our money away from us on a daily basis. It's not going to happen anymore. We have the greatest businesspeople right now in the world. They call me all the time. They want to be involved. We have political hacks negotiating our deals for billions and billions and billions of dollars. Not going to happen anymore. We're going to use the finest businesspeople in the world. We are going to something so good and so fast and so strong. And the world is going to respect us again. Believe me.

(CHEERS)

(APPLAUSE)

We're going to -- do we love our country?

(CHEERS)

Do we love our country?

(APPLAUSE)

I think one of the thing that really caught on is very important, self-funding my campaign. Everybody on both sides...

(CHEERS)

And you know I was saying two weeks ago. I said I don't think people really appreciate it because I see all of this money being poured into commercials and it's not their money. It's special interests' money. And this is on both sides. This is on the Republican side, the Democrat side, money just pouring into commercials.

These are special interests, folks. These are lobbyists. These are people that don't necessarily love our country. They don't have the best interests of our country at heart. We're not going to let it happen. We can't -- we have to do something about it. When you see -- when you see the kind of deals made in our country, a lot of those deals are made because the politicians aren't so stupid. They're making them for their benefit. We have to stop it. We have to stop it. We are now going to make it for your benefit. We're going to make the deals for the American people. That's the way it is. (CHEERS) (APPLAUSE) Now, very -- oh, I love this. Look at you. Look at you. I love these signs. They're the most imaginative signs.

So look, in a nutshell, we're going to make great trade deals. We're going to rebuild our military. It's going to be so big, so strong, so powerful. Nobody is going to mess with us, believe me, nobody. Nobody.

We are going to take care of our vets. Where is Al? Where is Al? We love Al. All right, Al? Get up here if you can.

We're going to take care of our vets. Our vets are treated horribly. They're our greatest people. Our vets are going to be taken care of. And you remember that, everybody.

(CHEERS)

Right?

We're going to have strong, incredible borders. And people are going to come into our country. But they're going to come into our country legally. They're going to come in legally.

(CHEERS)

We're going to build a wall. It's going to be built. It's not even, believe it or not, it's not even a difficult thing to do.

And by the way, for the people of New Hampshire, you have a tremendous problem with heroin and drugs. You wouldn't even believe it. You see this place and you say it's so beautiful. You have a tremendous problem.

The first thing always that they mention to me, Mr. Trump, please do something. The drugs, the heroin, it's pouring in. And it's so cheap because there's so much of it. And the kids are getting stuck and other people are getting stuck. We're going to end it. We're going to end it. We're going to end it at the southern border... (CHEERS) It's going to be over. And we're going to work. And we're going to work really hard to get those people that are so addicted off the habit. We're going to work like hell to take care of the situation. It's a huge problem in New Hampshire. It's a huge problem all over our country.

We're going to have borders again. And we're going to work with you people to help you solve that very big problem. And we'll get it done.

(CHEERS)

(APPLAUSE)

AUDIENCE: Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump...

TRUMP: That's so beautiful.

AUDIENCE: Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump...

TRUMP: What a group of people.

You know, and on top of this group we have thousands of people outside that can't even get in. That's what we have. Thousands of people.

(CHEERS)

AUDIENCE: Trump for president.

TRUMP: Health care. We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare...

(CHEERS)

It is a total disaster. We're repealing and replacing Obamacare. It's gone.

We're getting rid of Common Core. We're going to educate our children...

(CHEERS)

... locally. We educate our children locally.

We are going to preserve our very sacred Second Amendment.

(CHEERS)

There's not going to be any more chipping away at our Second Amendment. If we had protection in California recently, and so many other places.

You could even look to Paris. Paris has the toughest gun laws in the world. France has the toughest gun laws in the world. These animals go in. They start shooting, one, two, three, 130 people. With many people horribly wounded. Horribly wounded right now in the hospital. If there were bullets going in the other direction, believe me, it would've been a whole different story, folks.

(CHEERS)

But nobody had protection.

AUDIENCE: Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump...

TRUMP: I am going to be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. Remember that.

Don't believe those phony numbers when you hear 4.9 and 5 percent unemployment. The number's probably 28, 29, as high as 35. In fact, I even heard recently 42 percent. Do you think we'd have gatherings like this if we had -- if we had 5 percent unemployment do you really think we'd have these gatherings?

Forgetting about security, forgetting about ISIS, which by the way, we're going to knock the hell out of ISIS.
We're going to knock the hell out of them. And it's going to be done the right way.

So we're going to take care of the economy. We're going to take care of jobs. We're going to take care of all of the things that I said, our border, everything, health care. It's going to be so great.

Remember this about Obamacare. People are forgetting, but now they're miserable because it's going up 45 percent, 35 percent, 55 percent. It's totally out of control. Probably sinks of its own volition in 2017, unless the Republicans give it another -- I mean what's going on? What's going on?

The budget, the last budget that was approved is an absolute disaster for everybody in this country. We owe $19 trillion as of today. We just crossed the $19 trillion mark. We're going to very shortly be at $21 trillion because of the budget.

We are going to make our country so strong. We are going to start winning again. We don't win anymore as a country. We don't win on trade. We don't win with the military. We can't beat ISIS. We don't win with anything.

We are going to start winning again. And we're going to win so much, you are going to be so happy. We are going to make America so great again. Maybe greater than ever before.
I love you all. Thank you, New Hampshire.

Thank you. Thank you, New Hampshire. Thank you.

We are going now to South Carolina. We're going to win in South Carolina.
I love you all. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you very much.